How.
The thing is all the prizes that are in our target were collected in the 1970s.
Now I wasn't around back then but I am told the 70s was a glorious time to be alive.
The thing I know for sure however is that one dollar in 1970 was worth much much more than one dollar
today.
In fact inflation is a horrific thing for anybody with savings and to buy a house today you need many
many more dollars than you do.
In the 1970s so given that we want to get a dollar price estimate that's a bit closer to today's values
than 1970s values.
Let's make an adjustment to the estimates that our model is spitting out.
The only question is is how do we get a more realistic price out of our little evaluation tool.
For starters let's take a look at what the median price in our data set is.
As it stands currently and we can see this if I pull up num PIs median function so NPD up median and
I supply the target values in the Boston underscore data set.
So Boston underscored data set a target inside these parentheses for the median function will calculate
the median value of a property in our dataset and what we see is that in 1970 the median value was twenty
one thousand and two hundred dollars.
This is where we were at in 1970 in Boston.
But what about today.
If I go we will Zillow Boston home values I am brought to this page here.
So this is on Zillow dot com which actually gives us a median estimate for home prices in Boston as
of today.
And what we see here is that today the median home value is approximately five hundred and eighty three
thousand dollars more than half a million.
And that's a combination of inflation as well as increases in the real price of homes.
Now as a challenge can you write the python code that converts the estimated price from our model which
is in 1970s law prices to today's dollar values.
You're gonna have to convert the estimate itself.
The upper bound and the lower bound to today's prices.
And once you've converted it round the values to the nearest thousand dollars.
How.
Give you a few seconds to pause the video and then I'll show you my approach to solving this problem.
Ready.
Here it goes.
So the first thing I want to do his I'm going to say Zillow underscore median and a score.
Price is equal to five eight three point three.
This is the price in thousands that I saw on Zillow Web site for the median price in Boston at the time
of recording.
The next thing I want to do is I'm going to calculate some sort of scale factor the number we have to
multiply my twenty one point two by in order to get a realistic value for today.
So this is gonna be a scale and the scope factor which is equal to.
Well it's going to be equal to 5 8 3 divided by twenty one point two.
Right.
So Zillow on score median
underscore price divided by and p dot median parentheses Boston underscore data said Dot target.
Let's take a look at what the scale factor is equal to scale and scope factor shift into we now see
that the dollar prices should be multiplied by twenty seven point five.
Okay.
So that was step one.
Now let me call my function.
So my function will give me a log estimate.
It will give me an upper price and a lower price.
And it will give me some confidence interval.
Those of course are gonna get their values from our function get on the school log on the school estimate
and then when I calculate I don't know a price estimate for a mansion nine rooms and maybe students
on a score per square classroom is gonna be equal to say 15 next and score to underscore river.
It's gonna be equal to False and high school confidence it's going gonna be equal to.
No false it's varied up a bit.
Okay.
So now I've got my scale factor calculated and I've got values that I want to calculate from my estimate
my upper and lower bounds and my confidence interval limit shift and to make sure this works and it
does no errors.
Now what I'll do is I'll convert to today's dollars so the dollar estimate is gonna be equal to first
off reversing the lock transformation so end p dot e times times log and the school estimate then times
1000 because our dollars are in thousands and then times.
Well you guessed that these scale underscore a factor that we've calculated above.
This gives us a dollar estimate for today.
Let's take a look at what this one is actually a dollar and a school estimate shift enter.
Here's our ungrounded how you for a mansion that is not next to the river and has a pretty small class
size 15 students estimate in today's dollars is approximately eight hundred and twenty six thousand.
Now we just need to round it right and we need another comment see round the dollar values to nearest
thousand how create another variable that's going to hold onto the rounded estimate.
So it's a rounded underscore estimate.
It's gonna be equal to the return value from some sort of rounding function.
I want to use num pies around function so end p dot around parentheses $ underscore estimate comma and
I have to say I want to round to the nearest thousand.
So I want to say minus three.
Let's take a look at what this output actually reads.
So rounded let's go est shift enter.
And here we see it's eight hundred and twenty six thousand.
So this is a rounded value.
Brilliant.
Now all that's left to do is do the same thing for the upper value and a lower value.
I can first off copy this line of code paste that twice change my variable name so C high and then low
and we're transforming upper and we're transforming lower and then we're also going to round the upper
and the lower values.
So it's going to be rounded high and rounded low for dollar on a school high in dollar on a school low
let me print all of this out with F strings so print parentheses f single quotes.
The estimated property value is curly braces rounded underscore est full stop shift.
Enter.
That works except I've got a typo as to mated property value let's add another print statement.
Print f single quotes at curly braces.
C O and f percent confidence the valuation range is final print statement f single quotes USD.
Space curly braces rounded and a school low at the lower end to use the curly braces rounded and the
score high at the high end.
Full stop.
Okay so that was just a lot of typing but now we can look at our output.
Nicely worded using the variables that we've defined earlier and signed some f strings.
Let's take another look at the output for this cell.
Brilliant.
That works beautifully.
Now tell you what.
Let's add all of this to a function.
Let's create another function called get dollar estimate and make this function to all the conversion
as well as call this function here to actually get the estimate.
So I want to define a function the f get on the school dollar on the school estimate.
Parentheses colon and then inside the body of this function I'm going to put all the code that we've
written above.
So all of this up to here will go inside of the function.
So copy this I'm not pasted in here and then you'll see it's not indented so I'm going to have to indented.
So it's actually part of this function and I can do that by selecting all the lines and hitting tab
on my keyboard.
Now what we want is we want this function here to actually take again like the 4 arguments that we're
passing through to our other function call.
We can call the first one arm.
We can call the second one P.T. ratio.
We can call the third one chars and set that equal to False by default.
And then the last argument we can call it launch on the score range and set that equal to true by default.
And this means that in our nested function call right here to get log estimate we can pass through these
parameters.
So this won't be number nine.
This would be R.M. this won't be students per classroom equals 15.
This will be P.T. ratio.
This won't be next to river equals false but next to river equals say Chaz and this won't be high confidence
equals false but it'll be high confidence equals large range.
So I hope that you can see how using these different arguments works for these two.
I've used an argument by keyword so next to reverse the keyword chars is the value which we'll get from
this function call.
And for this argument high confidence is the key word and launch range is the value R.M. and P.T. ratio
are just the values because I'm passing these arguments by position not by keyword.
So this is number one this is argument number two.
If I didn't want to pass the arguments by position I could use a keyword as well so I could see students
on the school on a school classroom is equal to T ratio.
And that's because this is the keyword that we've defined in our signature forget log estimate all right
so we've got our function.
We've got our way of getting the log estimates.
We've got our way of converting the log estimates to today's dollars.
And we've got the point where we're rounding those values and then where we're showing some sort of
output to whoever's calling the function.
Let's try all of this out for good measure.
So get on the school dollar on a school estimate for a small apartment with C our M equal to two and
a terrible school with two hundred kids so P T ratio is equal to 200.
But on the upside this apartment will be next to the river.
So Charles is equal to true before a hit shift enter on the cell and make sure that I have had shift
enter on this cell beforehand and now I know that my function will be recognized as I do the same here
the estimated property value is zero and at 95 percent confidence the valuation range is between zero
at the lower end and a thousand dollars at the high end.
Why is that.
That's because the parameters that we've supplied here are completely unrealistic.
Write this number in particular.
You never have 200 kids per teacher in the local school.
A more realistic number something like say 30 which will then give us a more realistic estimate.
The same problem we might face if we have say zero rooms in the apartment which of course is nonsense
in this case even for a property with zero rooms which is impossible.
We get a price estimate how there's two ways that you can avoid this kind of situation.
Right.
First off you might have to inform people what get dollar estimate does and what these values actually
represent before they start just calling this function.
And the second thing that you can do is you can reject giving an estimate.
If these values are unrealistic.
Let me show you how you could do that for example.
So coming up here and at the very top of the function we could have an expression like if our home is
smaller than one column print single quotes.
That is unrealistic.
Full stop.
Try again.
Yeah.
And then still within this F block as you can tell by the indentation we return.
So as soon as this return instruction is hit none of these following lines of code will be executed.
We had shift to enter refresh the cell and then I'm going to try to run this code again see where we
get our function now does not provide an estimate when the when the input for the rooms are completely
unreasonable.
If you wanted to check two things say Say we wanted to make sure that this value here is not smaller
than one as well right.
Then what we could do is we'd come up here to our if statement and then we could use a logical or two
check two separate conditions so if our M is smaller than one or if P T ratio is smaller than one then
print this line and return from the function.
In other words one of the things that you can do to make sure that your functions aren't being completely
abused is to actually check the values that are being supplied when they're being called.
So if I had shift into now and I'd change this line to something reasonable like say six rooms and I
try to change this line here from Piti ratio of 30 to Piti ratio of minus 60 then I'll get the same
message.
Okay so strategy 1 was checking for inputs but better yet let's add some sort of description about what
this function does.
So that the person using it can pull up say the quick documentation if a press shift enter on this now
I can see the signature I can see it's is our M P T ratio charge is equal to False so see the default
values and hitting that plus sign I don't see anything else what I would like to see though is something
called a dark string the dark string should give us a description of our function what it does what
its inputs are and more or less like how to use it.
Let me show you how we can add this to our get dollar estimate function at the very very top we can
put in three double quotes and as you can see there's already six double quotes here because Jupiter
notebook inserted the closing three double quotes.
In other words you have three double quotes at the beginning and you have three double quotes at the
end the first three double quotes mark the beginning of the dark string the last three quotes mark the
end of the dark string and whatever we put in between will appear in the quick documentation check it
out estimate the price of a property in Boston full stop shift into and then shift Tab Well now show
this description in the quick documentation one of the good things to do when you're writing function
that you want other people to use is to include a little bit of information about what the function
does and also what the keyword arguments are.
After all if we do that on any p dot around and press a little plus sign we do indeed see some information
on the parameters that this function takes a decimals and out.
Yeah.
So we can see a little description here and we can use this function the way it was intended to.
Let's do the same thing for our function.
So if I come in here and say keyword arguments call and our M hyphen hyphen number of rooms in the property
and then P T ratio hyphen hyphen number of students put teacher in the classroom for the school in the
area Chaz hyphen iPhone true.
If the property is next to the river false.
Otherwise large underscore range.
I have an iPhone true for a 95 percent prediction interval.
False for a 68 percent interval
adding this description here for our keyword arguments and hitting shift enter allows us to see what
these arguments are and get a little description in the quick documentation when we had shift enter
can take a look.
Brilliant.
All right.
We're almost made it to the end.
The last thing I want to show you is how we can package what is in this chip in a notebook here.
As a Python module if we look at our MLK projects folder here a Python module is a file that ends in
dot P Y to create one of these files.
What we can do is we can upload a dot P Y file to this folder or alternatively we can go to new text
file and create this P Y file in Jupiter notebook directly.
I personally quite like the atom text editor for writing Python code and editing it.
You of course you can use other text editors as well to create these profiles but atom is definitely
a good one to save you the trouble of installing a text that's a I'll show you quickly how you can do
this in Jupiter notebook directly.
First off let's rename this file Let's rename it as valuation.
Dot P Y.
Or better yet let's name it as Boston under school valuation.
Dot P Y click Okay.
And now we're gonna copy some of our Python code and paste it into this empty dot P Y file.
Let's copy the imports for example.
Put those here let's copy the cell we're gathering the data.
Put this here.
Coming down let's copy this sale here with our indices and our property stats variable.
Copy it and put it here I don't really need this comment so I deleted scroll down Add a few more lines.
Go back to our notebook.
Scroll down a little more copy the part.
We're running our regression put it in here come back copy the function where we're doing our log estimate
of course add it to our DOT P. why file and then come down here where we've got o scale factor.
Copy those two lines go into our p y file scroll to the top in this case and I want to add it below
our crime and Zeldin indices.
So going to paste it in here.
And then finally I'm going to grab all the code in this cell here copied and pasted it at the very end
of my dot P Y file.
All that's left to do now is file save and now in my projects folder I have a Boston a school valuation
that P Y module that contains all my Python code which I can now use in any of the Python notebooks
in this project folder.
Check it out in the valuation tool I can come down and I can say import Boston under school valuation
as that and I can call a function from this module namely our get dollar estimate function with Val
dot get on a scope.
Donna on the score estimate parentheses six twelve and troop hitting shift enter.
I get a price estimate all my arguments here are passed by position and this function call here comes
from the module.
Right.
It comes from the module that I've just imported this one here comes from the notebook.
This one here comes from our Boston underscore valuation module.
Now of course this is a lot more clear if I open my multi variable regression notebook and try to do
the same thing 100 the notebook imports I can import Boston on school valuation as vow and if it shift
enter here scroll to the very bottom and see Val dot get $ underscore estimate parentheses 8 15 false
I will get an output from my get dollar estimate function from inside my dot P Why file.
Fantastic.
So we've covered quite a few things again in this lesson.
It's been a review of a lot of the concepts that we've talked about so far but we've also learned a
lot of new things on the Python front.
We've learned how to create functions with optional arguments how to call these functions with the arguments
where we supply the values by position and by keyword.
We've learned about how to make the quick documentation show up for functions that we ourselves have
written using dark strings.
We've covered how you might exit a function if you don't like the inputs that it's getting.
And we've covered how to use if else blocks to check for condition or even to different conditions.
So again congratulations for making it all the way through this.
I know the learning curve is getting steeper and I look forward to seeing you in the next modules.
Take care.